Group #4 Checkpoint 2
Goal
Write scripts to improve and use PerfTrack, a performance database system, to store and retrieve
measurement data related to the system and applications.
Group Members
● Mitch Souders (mitch.souders@gmail.com)
● Pallavi Nagothi (pallavi.rainbow@gmail.com)
● Bhagya Yerabothula (bhagya@pdx.edu)
● Archana Kumari (ak6@pdx.edu)
● Jess Fortier (jfortier@pdx.edu)
Caveats
Please note that this group has only just received the code drop for PerfTrack 3 days ago and as such has
made only minimal progress on the intended goals given that almost all goals depended on access to the
PerfTrack source code.
Progress on Deliverables
Some of the deliverables have been modified based on new information discovered in the Perftrack
codebase. Team members have been moved around to tasks for which they are better suited.
● Completed Team
members have gained proficiency in python. Bhagya,
Pallavi
● Completed Create/
Find a build/test environment for perftrack to test scripts or perftrack
modifications Mitch
○ Notes: PerfTrack and relevant scripts have been successfully built and run on Ubuntu
12.10. Information on how to setup the build environment has been disseminated to group
members.
○ Currently not setting up development environment on Linux Lab machines due to delay.
● In Progress Interact
with Group #3 to determine best method of importing their data
○ Notes: Discussions with Groups that are intending to input data have been recommended
to use the PerfTrack Data Format (PTDF).
● In Progress Develop/
Update Perftrack Scripts to import data from Group #3 Mitch
○ Notes: Testing various Python Postgres libraries for performance improvements.
Rearchitecting ptdf_entry.py and relevant database entry scripts optimizing for speed.
● Starting Develop
Perftrack GUI application to improve exporting/viewing data Pallavi,
Bhagya,
Archana
○ “Mini Database” to allow users to have a subset of all the data Jess
● Starting Improve
Perftrack GUI tool Bhagya,
Pallavi, Archana
○ Investigate PerfTrack GUI performance Issues
○ Determine reasonable approach to analyse and improve speed (most likely related to
database access, unoptimized queries or poor caching of existing data).
● Presentation (Mar 12), Final Project Paper (Mar 17) Entire
Group
Software
All necessary software has been acquired. Current build environment is Ubuntu 12.10 with all the necessary
dependencies installed via the system Package Manager.
Timeline
The timeline has been modified from Checkpoint #1 to reflect the delay in getting access Perftrack. Many of
the goals intended to occur prior to this checkpoint have been moved into the subsequent weeks.
Time Period Prior To This Checkpoint
Feb 1 Feb
15: Acquire copies of the PerfTrack code base and explore both the software from a user
standpoint and its backing code as developers. Setup build environment capable of running and testing
PerfTrack.
Time Period Moving Forward From This Checkpoint
Feb 16 Feb
22: "First Draft" of our code contributions, with the expectation that everyone is documenting
their efforts as they go. In other words, writing the basic version of the scripts you are responsible for, and
keeping a detailed journal of your approach as well as both your successes and your failures.
Feb 23 March
1: "Second Draft" of our code contributions, again with an expectation of good
documentation but also of reasonable amount of testing to support capabilities and limitations of the code
you have written.
March 2 March
8: "Final Draft" of our code contributions with documentation of the process that produced
it, and comparison to your initial attempts/strategy. This should also be the week that we decide on a
structure/order for both our presentation and our final paper.
March 9 March
12: Compile everyone's notes into a cohesive presentation. This is only one weekend, but
the task of putting notes that you should already have into a presentation format should not be so large that
this is a problem.
March 13 March
17: Everyone should edit their existing notes into the appropriate sections of the final
paper. Again, this is mostly just a weekend, but if we are diligent about documenting as we develop our
scripts then this shouldn't be too much of a problem.
Group Meetings
Group meetings will be held at minimum once per week, 30 minutes prior to the class period (subject to
availability) as a minor facetoface
discussion time. As many group members have unmoveable conflicts on
their time, most interaction will be conducted via email and online group chat. All document collaboration will
be done via Google Docs. Source code collaboration via GitHub.
https://github.com/organizations/CS533Winter2013Group4/
Additional Information
Description of Mini Database Exporting Method
Based on Karavanic's PerfTrack web page, PerfTrack supports many means of exporting data. Currently
there is an option to export to other formats such as spreadsheets or graphs but it would be possible to
develop a way to extract a subset of the database entries into a second "minidatabase"
so that it is less
resource intensive to exchange complete resource information about experiments. Besides the gains in file
size, this database would be able to queried faster to allow for better turnaround time for asking questions
relevant to the subset of information.
