Group #4 - Checkpoint 1
Goal
Write scripts to improve and use PerfTrack, a performance database system, to store and retrieve measurement data related to the system and applications.

Group Members
●  Mitch Souders 		(mitch.souders@gmail.com)
●	Pallavi Nagothi 		(pallavi.rainbow@gmail.com)
●	Bhagya Yerabothula 	(bhagya@pdx.edu)
●	Archana Kumari		(ak6@pdx.edu)
●	Jess Fortier 		(jfortier@pdx.edu)

Overview
This document has been split into two sections, deliverables and timeline. Deliverables will be the actual goals that the group intends to complete within the duration of the project and timeline will attempt to layout the goals and list specific dates that they are intended to be met. Requirements are things that are indirectly related to the project that may apply to specific group members.

Many of these goals are tentative pending the approval of the instructor and further knowledge of the PerfTrack system.

Deliverables/Goals
●	Create/Find a build/test environment for perftrack to test scripts or perftrack modifications - Mitch
●	Interact with Group #3 to determine best method of importing their data
○	Determine best data format for intercommunication - Archana
●	Develop Perftrack Scripts to import data from Group #3 - Pallavi, Bhagya, Mitch
●	Develop Perftrack Scripts to improve exporting data
○	“Mini Database” to allow users to have a subset of all the data - Jess
●	Improve Perftrack tool - Bhagya, Mitch, Pallavi
●	Checkpoint #2 (Feb 15), Presentation (Mar 12), Final Project Paper (Mar 17) - Entire Group

Platform
Linux based system to use/modify/test PerfTrack high performance database.

Software
●	PerfTrack - http://perftrack.cs.pdx.edu/
●	PostgreSQL (for use with PerfTrack) - http://www.postgresql.org/
●	Python - http://www.python.org/
●	Git (for use with GitHub) - http://git-scm.com/
●	Previous CS533 Groups Contributions - https://github.com/hemakumar/Data-Analysis_Group4c/

Basic Requirements
●	Learning Python - Bhagya, Pallavi
●	Getting access to PerfTrack source or test machine

Timeline
Feb 1 - Feb 8: Acquire copies of the PerfTrack code base and explore both the software from a user standpoint and its backing code as developers.

Feb 9 - Feb 15: Narrow down the specific contributions we would like to make to PerfTrack; this may be dependent upon the work of other teams. For example, if the teams responsible for gathering hardware data are outputting that data in JSON or XML format, then it might be in our interest to develop an easy import option to put that data into PTDF and subsequently into the data store if such conversion tools do not already exist (or are not very good). This will mean that our second checkpoint - due Feb 15 - can contain detailed information on the scripts we intend to develop or improve. 

Feb 16 - Feb 22: "First Draft" of our code contributions, with the expectation that everyone is documenting their efforts as they go. In other words, writing the basic version of the scripts you are responsible for, and keeping a detailed journal of your approach as well as both your successes and your failures. 

Feb 23 - March 1: "Second Draft" of our code contributions, again with an expectation of good documentation but also of reasonable amount of testing to support capabilities and limitations of the code you have written.

March 2 - March 8: "Final Draft" of our code contributions with documentation of the process that produced it, and comparison to your initial attempts/strategy. This should also be the week that we decide on a structure/order for both our presentation and our final paper.

March 9 - March 12: Compile everyone's notes into a cohesive presentation. This is only one weekend, but the task of putting notes that you should already have into a presentation format should not be so large that this is a problem.

March 13 - March 17: Everyone should edit their existing notes into the appropriate sections of the final paper. Again, this is mostly just a weekend, but if we are diligent about documenting as we develop our scripts then this shouldn't be too much of a problem.

Group Meetings
Group meetings will be held at minimum once per week, 30 minutes prior to the class period (subject to availability) as a minor face-to-face discussion time. As many group members have unmoveable conflicts on their time, most interaction will be conducted via email and online group chat. All document collaboration will be done via Google Docs. Source code collaboration via GitHub .

Additional Information
Description of Mini Database Exporting Method
Based on Karavanic's PerfTrack web page, PerfTrack supports many means of exporting data. Currently there is an option to export to other formats such as spreadsheets or graphs but it would be possible to develop a way to extract a subset of the database entries into a second "mini-database" so that it is less resource intensive to exchange complete resource information about experiments. Besides the gains in file size, this database would be able to queried faster to allow for better turnaround time for asking questions relevant to the subset of information.


